Write data from InfluxDB OSS to InfluxDB Cloud (#3419)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/v2.1/write-data/oss-to-cloud.md

menu:
  influxdb_2_1:
    name: Write from OSS to Cloud
    parent: Write data
weight: 105
influxdb/v2.1/tags: [write, ]
---

To write data from InfluxDB OSS to InfluxDB Cloud, use the Flux
[`to()`](/flux/v0.x/stdlib/influxdata/influxdb/to/) or
[`experimental.to()`](/flux/v0.x/stdlib/experimental/to/) functions.
Write data once with a single query execution or use [InfluxDB tasks](/influxdb/v2.1/process-data/)
to [routinely write data to InfluxDB Cloud](#automate-writing-data-from-influxdb-oss-to-influxdb-cloud).

{{% cloud %}}
#### InfluxDB Cloud rate limits
Write requests to InfluxDB Cloud are subject to the rate limits associated with your
[InfluxDB Cloud pricing plan](/influxdb/cloud/account-management/pricing-plans/).
{{% /cloud %}}

1.  Query data from InfluxDB OSS.
2.  _(Optional)_ [Filter](/{{% latest "flux" %}}/stdlib/universe/filter/) or process data to write to InfluxDB Cloud.
3.  Use `to` or `experimental.to` to write data to InfluxDB Cloud.
    For most use cases, `to()` is the correct function to use, but depending on
    the structure of the data you're writing, `experimental.to` may be required.
    
    **Use the following guidelines**:
    

> - **to()**: Use to write data in field keys to the `_field` column and field values to the `_value` column.
> 
> - **experimental.to()**: Use to write data in column names to corresponding field keys and column values to field values.

Author: ```suggestion
    - **to()**: Use to write data in field keys to the `_field` column and field values to the `_value` column.

    - **experimental.to()**: Use to write data in column names to corresponding field keys and column values to field values.
```

---
title: Write data from InfluxDB OSS to InfluxDB Cloud
description: >
  Use `to()` or `experimental.to()` to write data from InfluxDB OSS to InfluxDB Cloud.
  Selectively write data or process data before writing it to InfluxDB Cloud.
menu:
  influxdb_2_1:
    name: Write from OSS to Cloud
    parent: Write data
weight: 105
influxdb/v2.1/tags: [write, ]
---

To write data from InfluxDB OSS to InfluxDB Cloud, use the Flux
[`to()`](/flux/v0.x/stdlib/influxdata/influxdb/to/) or
[`experimental.to()`](/flux/v0.x/stdlib/experimental/to/) functions.
Write data once with a single query execution or use [InfluxDB tasks](/influxdb/v2.1/process-data/)
to [routinely write data to InfluxDB Cloud](#automate-writing-data-from-influxdb-oss-to-influxdb-cloud).

{{% cloud %}}
#### InfluxDB Cloud rate limits
Write requests to InfluxDB Cloud are subject to the rate limits associated with your
[InfluxDB Cloud pricing plan](/influxdb/cloud/account-management/pricing-plans/).
{{% /cloud %}}

1.  Query data from InfluxDB OSS.

> 2.  _(Optional)_ Filter or process data to write to InfluxDB Cloud.

Reviewer: maybe link to filter function would be helpful...and/or link process data procedure?

> 2.  _(Optional)_ Filter or process data to write to InfluxDB Cloud.

Author: ```suggestion
2.  _(Optional)_ [Filter](/{{% latest "flux" %}}/stdlib/universe/filter/) or process data to write to InfluxDB Cloud.
```

3.  Use `to` or `experimental.to` to write data to InfluxDB Cloud.
    For most use cases, `to()` is the correct function to use, but depending on
    the structure of the data you're writing, `experimental.to` may be required.
    
    **Use the following guidelines**:
    

>     - **to()**: Write data that is structured with the field key in the `_field`
>       column and the field value in the `_value` column.
>     - **experimental.to()**: Write data with column names that should be used as
>       field keys and column values that should be used as field values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **to()**: Use to write data in field keys to the `_field` column and field values to the `_value` column.

- **experimental.to()**: Use to write data in column names to corresponding field keys and column values to field values.
```

```js
import "influxdata/influxdb/secrets"

cloudToken = secrets.get(key: "INFLUX_CLOUD_API_TOKEN")

from(bucket: "example-oss-bucket")
    |> range(start: -10m)
    |> filter(fn: (r) => r._measurement == "example-measurement")
    |> filter(fn: (r) => r.exampleTag == "someTagValue")
    |> filter(fn: (r) => r._field == "example-field")
    |> filter(fn: (r) => r._value >= 80.0)
    |> to(
        bucket: "example-cloud-bucket",
        host: "https://cloud2.influxdata.com",
        org: "example-org",
        token: cloudToken,
    )
```

## Process data and write it to InfluxDB Cloud
`to()` and `experimental.to()` write data as it is pipe-forwarded.
Use [`map()`](/flux/v0.x/stdlib/universe/map/), [`set()`](/flux/v0.x/stdlib/universe/set/),
[`aggregateWindow()`](/flux/v0.x/stdlib/universe/aggregatewindow/)
[aggregate](/flux/v0.x/function-types/#aggregates) or
[selector functions](/flux/v0.x/function-types/#selectors), or other Flux
functions to process and shape data as needed.

{{% note %}}
The shape of the processed data determines which `to()` function to use.
_See [Identify which to() function to use](#identify-which-to-function-to-use)_. 

> {{% /note %}}

Reviewer: feels a bit circular/overlapping 

Ideally, we'd link to a separate procedure for info about "processing" data that covers all aforementioned functions. 

Perhaps eventually here :
(/influxdb/cloud/process-data/get-started/#process-or-transform-your-data)...once we land examples for map/set/aggregrate/selectors?

    |> aggregateWindow(every: 1m, fn: last)
    |> to(
        bucket: "example-cloud-bucket",
        host: "https://cloud2.influxdata.com",
        org: "example-org",
        token: cloudToken,
    )
```

#### Write min, max, and mean values to InfluxDB Cloud
```js
import "influxdata/influxdb/secrets"

cloudToken = secrets.get(key: "INFLUX_CLOUD_API_TOKEN")

data = from(bucket: "example-oss-bucket")
    |> range(start: -30m)
    |> filter(fn: (r) => r._measurement == "example-measurement")

min = data |> aggregateWindow(every: 10m, fn: min) |> map(fn: (r) => ({ r with _field: "{$r._field}_min" }))
max = data |> aggregateWindow(every: 10m, fn: max) |> map(fn: (r) => ({ r with _field: "{$r._field}_max" }))
mean = data |> aggregateWindow(every: 10m, fn: mean) |> map(fn: (r) => ({ r with _field: "{$r._field}_mean" }))

union(tables: [min, max, mean])
    |> to(
        bucket: "example-cloud-bucket",
        host: "https://cloud2.influxdata.com",
        org: "example-org",
        token: cloudToken,
    )
```

## Automate writing data from InfluxDB OSS to InfluxDB Cloud
To automatically and routinely write data from InfluxDB OSS to InfluxDB Cloud,

> [Create a task](/influxdb/v2.1/process-data/manage-tasks/create-task/) in your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[create a task](/influxdb/v2.1/process-data/manage-tasks/create-task/) in your
```
